I'm a vania's oh no I joined protocol
labs almost a year ago to work on a
couple of specific research directions
and also to help overall organize the
research effort that we have protocol
labs and I'll mostly be talking about
the latter before I like going after
Kalan is great because he always covers
things very thoroughly at a high level
and I am mostly just going to briefly
recap that we have like we go into
research with a certain mentality that
is driven by the things that we think
are really important naturally research
is not something that one should go into
unless they really believe in the goals
that they're trying to reach and so I
thought it was worth starting off with a
bit about the values in general that
drive us in our research one of one of
those and like this is obviously not a
complete list but the first I'd like to
highlight is that we are really
enthusiastic about sharing as much as we
can whether though that's our progress
our struggles or our our accomplishments
and as part of that we try to make
everything open-source as soon as we can
and as much as possible document it well
we thoroughly believe that keeping
things in the open our is the best way
to both protect user freedoms and keep
things as high quality as possible in
addition one also mentioned that we tend
to try and do things well and I think
that's complemented by the fact that we
really try to do things that are hard
enough and important enough that they're
really worth doing and it's often
difficult to strike a balance between
those two and timeliness so between
those three we I think that it it's easy
to say that we try to do things that are
worth doing
and doing them well primarily and then
collaboration is also just another thing
that we really strongly believe in and
that comes from the fact that we think
that progress is nonzero-sum and I'm
sure that all of you agree that if you
build something if you build the right
thing well then everyone should benefit
and so after like if you start with that
direction you start to look for the
kinds of tools that give you an
advantage towards doing these things and
the tools that we've come we seem to
keep turning to as incredibly useful are
things like decentralization which is
incredibly powerful and helpful when you
want to give control of content back to
the creators and with decentralization
you often either need or are aided
seriously by trusts lessness there's
some amazing work being done in
cryptography and due to a series of
recent breakthroughs it is no longer
necessary to trust people in certain
certain contexts and beyond that another
thing that we keep finding as protocol
labs is that all too often you'll come
across a system that was designed
wherein the incentives are misaligned
one person will benefit by cheating the
other person and this is just a problem
with the system you can fix this you can
build a different system build a better
protocol and have everyone actually
incentivized to work with each other and
help each other and as part of that
effort
we thought that you we should be able to
do this with our research development
deployment lab this is a pipeline that
can be done transparently in
collaboratively and openly and we can
find ways to make sure that everyone
wants to help build our superpowers
because who doesn't want more
superpowers
and as a result we have been developing
a grant program you'll find on our blog
an announcement of protocol labs
research in general as a as an
independent team you'll find there
things like the email address research
of protocol that AI which is hopefully
easy to remember and you can just reach
out to us with research concerns
questions comments possible
collaboration ideas in general it's
probably easier and more efficient to
reach us through the github research
repo which is also linked here but it
gives some this blog post gives comment
in your context to the effort and it
gives you all the relevant links so I
thought it was worth bringing up before
going into the fact that that blog post
also starts talking about the open
problems we're posting we have within
the research repo a list of open
problems that is growing at an
increasing rate and these are problems
that we've either come across as
roadblocks that we don't have time to
spend on them or we'll it'll be some
sort of technological wishlist where
there's things that seem like they'd be
really good to have but we don't have
the bandwidth to look into them or
general cases of specific problems that
we see continuously and repeatedly
coming up and so the goal is that these
problems will be things that you'll see
people coming to discuss and we'll have
problems that range in difficulty from
something that you could give a student
for a master's thesis all the way to
things that you could have a large-scale
research group working on for a
multi-year effort these are problem we
currently have seven posted and the
first three are related to or things we
came across when we wanted to develop
improvements for file coin the two
related to CRT tees are
Pedro's gonna be talking about next and
you can find dig into the rest of them
here and then in conjunction with these
we've also allotted five million dollars
for a trial request for proposals
program where we have a number of RFPs
and I can actually open this up really
quickly hopefully maybe and so it's just
the protocol research RFP is repo linked
in the blog post and you can open up one
of these and you'll see a nice write-up
of things like how to in application
instructions award size and a problem
statement that I'll let Pedro dig into
and yeah you'll the hope is that we will
continue to build this program we've
already had a surprising amount of
success we've gotten a number of
responses on the file coin related RFPs
from research leading research groups
including one or two groups that have
pioneered the field of data storage so
this is really exciting it's great
having all of you here to hear about the
CR TT problems that were interested in
pushing towards and I will yield the
rest of my time for questions